Od: Piotr Lis - Piona.PL [piotrek@piona.pl]
Odesláno: 4. èervence 2007 3:50
Komu: Radek Sterba
Pøedmìt: RMT - My very personal wishlist :-)

Hello!

Sorry for long break - I'm obviously too lazy, but I just started to
make new music on RMT and I'd like to show you my wishlist.
Unfortunatelly we had no chance to talk on the party, I'll do my best
to be more sorber next time!

Of course I'm not complaining, I'm really impressed by your effort and
by the fact that you are still developing one of my favourite tools
:-)
Those suggestions are just my crazy ideas. I'd be happy to know your
opinion on those.

I do realise that some of those sugestion are impossible, but I'll
post them anyway:

- UNDO - I know, I know, but still very desired by me :-)

- chance for viewing (hearing) sample before loading it into RMT (have
no idea is it possible or not, but it'd be great to have it)

- when you stretch the envelope (yes, finally I've started to play
with instruments' edits) it would be great if you could copy atributes
of the last bar - let me show the example:

Let's say, that the last bar in the envelope is a "clear" sound (no
bass, no noise). When i stretch the envelope, the new bar is always
noise. It'd be great to just copy the last bar.

The same problem with making envelope shorter - is it possible to
remember the deleted bars? You know - let say, that we have bars with
some atributes - now try to imagine, that you delete half of the bars
by mistake - but with rebuilding it you would have a chance to restore
bars' atributes. So the only thing that would be changed during
rebuilding would be the envelope shape.

If it's no clear, I can make animations, to explain it better.

- copying envelepe between channels

- editins block would affect only some notes (let say, that i have
mixed bass and drums and I'd like to affect only bass notes in the
pattern)

- make different colors for tempo/frames and it's background - it's
actually done, now it is very easy to see what's there.

- next one was about making difference between background and cursor
when editing the pattern - it's done as well, I'm really happy because
of it :-)

- efect as efect only, with ability to irreversible application the
effect (still the oryginal note is "more important" than the note from
the effect if the conflict occurs) of course notes added by effect
should differ from the original ones. Not sure is it clear enough -
let's see the example: I have some notes and I'd like to test some
effects in easy way - if would be nice just to turn on the effect and
adjust parameters and still have chance to change parameters or
dissable the effect. Now the only way is to use 'restore from backup'
which is not very handy, since it's dissabled after futher edits.

Of course if one's sure about the effect, it could be just applied in
irreversible way (like now)

- any chances for reconfiguration the keys? :-) I still use Renoise
which uses space as play/stop and consequences are very sad sometimes
when I try to do the same in RMT :-)

Actually my idea would be switching between standard layout and my own
(to avoid confusing people) and the most wanted thing would be:
SPACE - play/stop
DEL   - make empty space in pattern (without moving anything in
pattern)
ESC   - toggle between PROVE MODE and EDIT (f9 at the moment)

- detail, but usefull I think - some mark (asterisk?) at the top of
the RMT window to indicate whether the file has been modified or not.
The next thing would be disabling the alert ("are you sure you want to
exit RMT?") if the file wasnt modified or it was saved etc.

- in fx window changing the instrument shouldnt be offset, it should
be just absolute value. and if it has to be left in this way - is the
value hex or dec? You know, if I want to change instrument from 05 to
19 I still would prefer to put 19 value instead of counting.

- some key shortcut for deleting the pattern out of current position
in the song (instead of changing it manually)

- now I have big resolution - any chances for making next display mode
with longer pattern and songs?

- I had failed to do that, but maybe it's possible to mix some sounds?
Like making bas mixed with bass drum or with snare? One bar with bass
one bar with snare in the envelope. Or maybe 1 bass 2 snares or
2 basses 1 snare? Have no idea what is the right proportions - all I've
done was noisy and ugly. Anyway, using 2generator bass mixed with drums
would be great opportunity for musicians :-)

- ctrl+l, ctrl+s, would be handy. during loading it would be nice to
check if the song has been modified (and warning the user that he is
about to loose his edits) or not

- if the last playing mode was loop, exiting from the pattern (down
arrow when you are at the last patterns position) should move me at
the beggining of the same pattern (VERY handy when working longer time
at patterns). Of course when you are at the beggining and you press
the UP arrow - it'd move to the last position of the same pattern.
And of course only when the last playing mode was loop.

- the last thing was inserting bars in the envelope - dont remember if
it was very important for me, I was completing this wishlist in March
:-)

Please do let me know does it make any sense for you?

I heard good news from Ellvis who told me about Forever in 2008, it
was very nice information I must say!

Looking forward to hear from you!

Thanks again for your great work Raster!

-- 
Best regards,
Piotr Lis - piona.pl
+353 876 69 65 02
http://www.piona.pl - webdesign, logodesign, CMS
